# Migrating from previous Data Center configuration

Prior to the existence of this repository, Data Center Kubernetes configuration was generated by the
`sourcegraph-server-gen` binary from a `config.json` file. Existing clusters should be migrated to
use the new pure Helm chart. Follow these steps:

1. Upgrade to Sourcegraph Data Center 2.8.0 using the legacy process:
   ```bash
   sourcegraph-server-gen update 2.8.0
   sourcegraph-server-gen config.json ./helm-chart
   helm upgrade sourcegraph ./helm-chart
   ```

   After upgrade, verify the Sourcegraph cluster is healthy before proceeding to the next step.

1. Migrate `config.json` to the new `values.yaml` config file:
   ```bash
   sourcegraph-server-gen migrate config.json .
   ```

   Observe that this creates two new files: `values.yaml` and `helm.sh`. The latter is just a
   wrapper around `helm` that includes values that used to be embedded with the `file!` and `exec!`
   syntax.

1. Show the diff associated with applying the new Data Center Helm chart:
   ```bash
   ./helm.sh diff upgrade sourcegraph https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph/archive/latest.tar.gz | less -R
   ```
   Scan the diff for unexpected changes. The following changes are *expected*:
   - If you do **NOT** have the `gitserverSSH` config field set, some deployments will have the following diff:
     ```diff
     -       - name: ssh
     -         secret:
     -           defaultMode: 384
     -           secretName: gitserver-ssh
     ```
   If you notice unexpected changes, email us with the unexpected diff.

1. Update your cluster from the new pure Helm chart:
   ```bash
   ./helm.sh upgrade sourcegraph https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph/archive/latest.tar.gz
   ```

1. Use `kubectl get pods` to check the health of the cluster. If something goes wrong, you can revert
   the change by running through the old update process with `sourcegraph-server-gen`.

Note: the `file!` and `exec!` syntax from `config.json` has been retired. File contents can still be
embedded using the `helm --set` flag (automatically included in `helm.sh`).
